Movie Recommendation System - Collaborative Filtering

Goal: Build a recommendation system that suggests movies to users based on their ratings and preferences.

Description: This project will implement a movie recommendation system using collaborative filtering. We'll use a dataset of user ratings for movies and apply a collaborative filtering algorithm to recommend movies to users based on their preferences and the preferences of similar users. We’ll use the Surprise library for implementing collaborative filtering techniques like SVD (Singular Value Decomposition) and KNN-based filtering.

Steps:

Install Dependencies:

Install necessary libraries like pandas, surprise, and matplotlib.

Load and Preprocess Data:

Download the MovieLens dataset (e.g., ml-latest-small).

Load the movie and ratings data into Pandas DataFrames.

Clean and merge the datasets.

Create a User-Item Matrix:

Use the ratings data to create a matrix where rows represent users, columns represent movies, and values represent ratings.

Collaborative Filtering using Surprise:

Use the Surprise library to build collaborative filtering models (SVD or KNN).

Split the dataset into training and test sets.

Evaluate the model using RMSE and MAE.

Generate Recommendations:

Predict ratings for movies that a user hasn't rated yet.

Recommend the top N movies with the highest predicted ratings.

Improve the Model:

Experiment with hyperparameters to improve accuracy.

Explore hybrid models or advanced algorithms for better results.

Deliverables:

A recommendation system that suggests movies to users.

Evaluation metrics such as RMSE and MAE.

Visualizations of top recommended movies for a user.

Replit Setup Instructions:

Create a new Python Replit project.

Install necessary dependencies:

bash
Copy
Edit
pip install pandas scikit-surprise matplotlib
Load the MovieLens dataset (movies.csv and ratings.csv files).

Implement the collaborative filtering algorithm using the steps above.

Test the recommendation system for different users.